## How would you explain the various sorting algorithms to a six year old?
   [Quora: Harold Kingsberg, on Jul 14, 2013]
   -> You have a deck of cards. You want to get them in a specific order. How do you go about it?

   -> Bogosort
     You shuffle the deck. If the cards are now in the right order, you have successfully sorted the deck. 
     If not, you shuffle again until such time as the deck is properly sorted.

   -> Bubble sort
      You lay all the cards out in a line. Start at one end. Is the first card of a greater value than the second? 
      Then leave them alone. If not, switch their positions. Now look at the second card and the third card. 
      Ask the same question with the same results. Keep going down the line. When you hit the end of the line, 
      go back to the beginning and repeat the process. Keep doing this until you go through the line and never switch two cards.

  -> Insertion sort
     Again, lay all the cards out in a line. Start at one end. Go to the second card. Is it smaller than the first? 
     Then move it to the beginning, otherwise, leave it alone. Either way, go to the third card. Is it smaller than the first? 
     Then move it to the beginning and move the card currently in the first position to the second and the card currently in the 
     second position to the third. If not, is it smaller than the second? Then put it in the second slot. Otherwise, leave it 
     where it is. Go through the line once and you're done.

  -> Selection sort
     We're laying the cards out again. Start at one end. Look at the first card. Remember that number. 
     Look at the second card. Does it have a smaller number? Then start remembering that number instead of the first number. 
     Otherwise, just remember the first number. Go to the third card. Does it have a smaller value? If so, remember that value 
     instead, if not, remember the old value. Keep doing this until you hit the end of the line. You now know the smallest 
     value. Put the card with that value first. Now do this again, but instead of starting from the first position, 
     start from the second. Keep doing this until you're starting with the last card in the line - at which point you've 
     sorted the list.

  -> Quicksort
     Lay out all the cards in a line. Pick a card at random. All cards with a value greater than the randomly selected card 
     go to one side of that card, all cards with a value smaller go to the other side of that card. Now go to one of the 
     sides and pick a card at random. All cards bigger than this second randomly selected card go to one side of this second 
     card, the rest go to the other side of this second card. Continue doing this until you've only got one card to select 
     from.

  -> Merge sort
     Lay out the cards in a line. Split the line in half. Then split each half in half. Keep doing this until you've got only 
     pairs of cards. Sort the pairs. Then put the pairs back together into groups of four, sorting the groups of four. 
     Keep doing this until you're back to the full length of the list.

  -> (I've clearly simplified the quicksort and merge sort algorithms a bit. It shouldn't be too difficult to de-nerf them if you'd like, but I figured "six years old, just make sure they get the basic point.")
